Basic XSS
Let’s demonstrate basic XSS
with a simple attack against
our Windows 10 lab machine.
This web application
contains several flaws,
including a stored XSS vulnerability.
To demonstrate this, we can
insert a few special characters
into the Feedback form fields
and submit them.
We will start by submitting some of
the JavaScript-specific characters.
Reviewing the resulting message
in the Inspector tool,
we can see that our characters
were not removed or encoded.
Since the input is not
filtered or sanitized,
and our special characters have
passed through into the output,
the conditions look right
for an XSS vulnerability.
Let’s examine the source code to
better understand what’s happening.
When feedback is submitted to the site,
it is handled by this code.
Line 40 handles the values of the “name”
and “comment” fields that
are posted to the server.
The code inserts those values into the
database without any modification.
Next, we will check the code that
displays the feedback on the site.
Line 44 writes the results from
the database into the page.
The results are indeed output
without any modification.
Let’s update our input
and create a payload
that displays a simple Javascript alert.
Based on the code we reviewed,
we don’t need any fancy
encoding tricks here,
just a basic XSS payload.
After submitting our payload,
refreshing the Feedback page should
execute our injected JavaScript.
Excellent.
We have injected a
cross-site scripting payload
into the web application’s database
and it will be served to
anyone that views the site.
A simple alert window is a
somewhat trivial example
of what can be done
with cross-site scripting
so let’s try something more interesting.